hi welcome to december the atheist base  project covers a whole lot of ground and  one of the things that i wanted to cover  along with my lovely wife was this idea  of atheist christmas what what what's  that all about can atheists celebrate  christmas well clearly i mean she's  dressed up for christmas i'm at least  wearing red today we've got our tree  here  the issue that we keep coming across is  this idea that some people are trying to  tell other people what they should or  shouldn't celebrate yeah that's pretty  true christmas or as you will see it  referred to if you debate with  christians online christmas  it's right there in the name it's a  christian holiday why are you atheists  celebrating it that's true and yeah  that's true origins don't matter  cultural context matters that's true  that's true that's pretty true and  what's the cultural context of christmas  today  well  93  of americans celebrate christmas that's  pretty true i mean  that's true 96 of american christians so  that means four percent don't three  math challenged people  81 of american non-christians celebrate  87  of the nuns the unaffiliated which  includes atheists and agnostics  celebrate it  so that's about 18  of christmas celebrators since 93 and  america is about 75 christian yeah  that's true moreover if you ask is  christian chris christmas  primarily christian or primarily  cultural  millennials say  that it's primarily religious only 39 of  the time  over 65 say 66 of the time  um that's true and real modern christmas  came into being in the victorian era so  late 1800s or so that's when charles  dickens queen victoria and a few other  people really made it what it is today  it would not be  the popular thing it is today without  this family giving charity love holiday  not really  centered on christ that's [ __ ] true  when we think of a modern christmas in  the west anything in my lifetime for  sure  has very very little to do with  christianity if anything uh the  decorated trees candy canes lights santa  frosty rudolph  yeah that's pretty true that's true and  yeah that's true that's true that's true  that's pretty true that's pretty true i  mean  that's true yeah that's true  um that's true that's [ __ ] true no  christian can say keep christ in  christmas and ask why an atheist  celebrates christmas they're lying to  you  [Music]  when i was at this convention  i got to the feeling that  this woman beth presswood who was matt  dillahunty's wife was sexually  interested in and uh  now  it's possible that i completely misread  the situation 100 possible but what i  will tell you is is after we left there  the first thing i told my friend nate  jones he was my destinative the first  thing i told him when we were in the car  was those guys are definitely slingers  and she was trying to have sex in here  she's trying to gauge my interest in her  and uh  i'm  i'm hopefully this will come up raggedly  but  in the year i was single i had a lot of  experiences with women and i got to be a  pretty good judge of when they were  interested in me and not interested in  me and you could tell their body  language and side glances and the way  they look  and i could tell by the dynamic between  her and her husband matt that  they were swingers and i had no idea at  the time like nobody told me that period  and now i've since found that that was  true you know um it's been told that  these  atheist conventions are like you know  swinger disneyland everybody's [ __ ]  everybody at these atheist conventions  and i was being a [ __ ] dick about it  this picture got taken to me and beth  in the air getting [ __ ] and uh so anyway  uh i took a lot of [ __ ] a lot of people  were like no dusty that is impossible  this woman could never be attracted to  you  how would this woman ever want to have  sex with you you arrogant [ __ ] maybe  maybe i'm wrong but  and so he refused to go on the show if i  was allowed on there to debate him and  talk about this uh so i was not allowed  on i went on the very next week to  discuss this and so he was on there and  he basically said i was full of [ __ ]  there is no possible way that she could  have ever been attracted to me or wanted  to have sex with me at all  that's what he said but i felt bad that  i said all that [ __ ] in public i don't  think i should have said that i think it  was immature of me to say that but i did  now that told you that story let's start  over and talk about the dave silverman  situation all right so for those who  don't know who [ __ ] dave silverman is  dave silverman is uh the former  president of the uh i think it's the  american atheist association or uh  and as you can see here  i made this back in i think 2015 and i  made a folder called personal heroes and  it only has two people in it dave  silverman and matt dilla honey  2018 he got fired from the american  atheist because sexual assault  allegations came out and i think there's  also allegations about some kind of uh  financial improprieties but i looked  into that and i couldn't find any  evidence of that i don't think anything  ever came of that they didn't prove that  he did anything wrong financially so  that seemed like that was [ __ ] the  sexual assault allegations really did  him in in my opinion so let me read you  uh the buzzfeed article and this  buzzfeed article was really the the nail  in the coffin for dave this is what  everybody read and afterwards everybody  thought dave was a sexual predator right  he was hated he was ostracized by his  friends uh lost his job wasn't able to  get a job anywhere like many other  communities in the metoo era the atheist  movement is undergoing a reckoning over  the treatment of women in its ranks in  february buzzfeed news exposed  allegations of sexual harassment against  other prominent atheists the physicist  lawrence krauss in the wake of that  story two women told buzzfeed news that  they were assaulted by silverman they  each filed written in complaints to  american atheists this week in one of  those complaints a woman described a  hotel room party held at the end of 2015  american atheist convention in memphis  so i just want to say um  all this was made anonymous at this  point and uh even david silverman is  still keeping who this person is  anonymous but i've looked into it and  i've been told by dave silverman's  people that the lawsuit has already been  filed and the names are already public  and then i also did my investigative  journalistic work and i verified the  name of this person with several other  people so the only reason i am making  this public is because it's already  public if it wasn't public i wouldn't be  putting this out there or if i wasn't  under the impression it was public i  wouldn't be putting this out there it  turns out that who he's talking about is  this woman beth prestwood who is matt  dillahunty's ex-wife they were married  at the time this happened of course in  one of those complaints a woman just got  a hotel room party held at the end of  2015 american atheist convention in  memphis this is right around the time do  that stuff with me and her having she  and silverman had known each other for  years and he flirted with her throughout  the evening she wrote in the complaint  after the other guests left r wrote that  silverman asked her to join him in  smoking marijuana on the roof but before  they left the room he suddenly forced  himself on her he physically pressed me  to the wall and began to kiss me  forcefully grabbed my breast and put his  hand into my leggings where there was  actual penetration of my vagina she  wrote i believe silverman knew she was  interested in bdsm and wrote that he  began using insulting language calling  her a dirty little [ __ ] he then pushed  her to her knees where his penis briefly  made contact with my mouth she wrote  alright got her  got her feet and said no she wrote  silverman then lightly slapped her face  and said you don't get to say no to me  at that point ours said the widely used  bdsm safe word red which stopped him and  then she left the next day r took  photographs at bruises where she said  silverman had grasped her and these  pictures were included in her complaint  to the american atheist but turns out  there's more to the story  i've reviewed the evidence and what it  said here is not true she lied about it  you know she hasn't publicly told the  truth about this in my opinion well a  lot of people don't understand about  these atheist conventions this is  something i said back when i was talking  about how i thought beth presswood was  trying to gauge my interest for a sexual  encounter is that these atheist  conventions are like a meat market right  people go there just to [ __ ] the [ __ ]  out of each other and also i mentioned  this kind of before that there are a lot  of women out there who are what you call  atheist groupies who have this thing  where they want to have sex with all the  prominent people in the atheist  community  i've encountered these women before  i would not be surprised if me and david  silverman have had sex with the same  woman basically she's lying about the  whole thing basically she pursued him  and there's eyewitnesses that have come  forward and say that they saw this  happen that she was the one actually  kissing him she was the one pursuing the  flirtation with him and uh  despite what she says about going to go  to the roof and smoke pot and him  sexually assaulting her before that  the evidence seems to suggest that no  they had some kind of uh consensual  sexual encounter they went up to his  hotel room and he's explaining what  happened once they got up to the hotel  room i'm gonna play a small clip of this  and you guys can check it out so she's  standing in front of me she's taking off  her clothes and she says um  call me a  [ __ ] call me a [ __ ] call me a whole  and she mentions a former lover by name  and she says he's not even man enough to  call me a [ __ ]  um keeps us robbing and uh she  i get her on her knees at the foot of  the bed  she tells me again  call me a [ __ ] i used to be a  prostitute  i should be ashamed for it  and that's when i called her a dirty  [ __ ]  it's hard because  this is a woman who  yes i called her a [ __ ] after she told  me to call her [ __ ] twice  this actually happened and this is  what's been disturbing for me so much so  um  i i grab her by the hair i pull her hair  back  and i uh say i'm gonna spit in your  mouth open your mouth  she says no  i tap her lightly across the face  i say you're not allowed to say no to me  no doesn't stop me  stop doesn't stop me the safe word is  red do you understand she looks at me  she says i understand  then i said open your mouth i'm going to  spit in your mouth she opens her mouth i  spit in your mouth  this is the way b asm works  safe words red means no so i'm holding  her like this yeah red means  i spat in her mouth  and i said i'm going to do it again  and that's when she said red  and when she said red i like over hair  and i said oh you don't like that huh  and she says no i don't like that i said  okay let's do something else she's okay  get up on the bed so it's not like  when she said red of course i stopped  immediately but we didn't stop playing  we kept going um so basically the story  he tells is that they were flirting all  night um  and making out at different times where  they're walking along together  and um  there are multiple witnesses that saw  this happen that saw her kiss him at one  point  uh he tells her to go into the bathroom  and take a picture of her vagina which  she does and she brings the phone back  and she hands it to him and he looks at  it and he sets the phone down and this  other woman camilla harris who i know  she comes up and she grabs the phone  before it times out and picks it up  because it looks exactly like her phone  it's the same phone case and everything  she's like hey this is my phone case she  picks it up and she looks at it and she  sees the picture of the woman's vagina  on the phone uh which was beth  prescott's phone and uh she out  triggered a minute she has gone public  and said yes this happened so she  has confirmed um and other like i said i  said other white witnesses that say that  they saw them flirting together they saw  beth beth press would be aggressive  towards him and be the one to kiss him  in the elevator and whatnot so  apparently he says they went to the  hotel room to have sex play and uh rough  bdsm sex  and  this happened her phone rings and it's  uh matt de la honey and matt dunham has  specifically said he does not want them  having sex even though matt dillahunty  and her are swingers uh they have an  understanding uh he has to get  permission and he does not want her  having sex with dave he  specifically forbids it but beth is  doing it anyway and dave knows that matt  doesn't want him having sex with his  wife but dave is doing it anyway  and i guess dave is going to bring this  out in his lawsuit where he i don't know  if this was uh he where he secretly  recorded a conversation he had with matt  dillahunty two years after this happened  where basically he asked matt if he has  a problem with him and matt says no i'm  fine with you i wanted to share the  stage with you and and he says well  clearly matt doesn't believe that he  assaulted his wife because would you say  you're fine with the guy that you  thought was not your dog your wife  would you  share a stage with a guy who you thought  was sochi why you wouldn't so this is  proof that  he didn't think that he knew he thought  beth was lying and he continued to try  to destroy david silver's career and so  dave is suing him for blackballing him  and try destroying his career because  according to dave they believes that  matt de la honey  knew his wife was lying but try to  destroy him anyway i guess out of  vengeance because he was mad they slept  together or whatnot i'm not you know i  guess the trial will happen we'll figure  out exactly um  it seems like to me that  this dude slept with his wife without  his permission and then it  it  was one of the catalysts that led to  their marriage breaking up i think  [Music]  people need  encouragement  encouragement  matters  whether you are thinking of that in  terms of  personal transformation  or  social and political transformation on a  larger and larger scale  you can measure this scientifically this  is a great example of how it can be very  difficult to draw a line between science  and pseudoscience sometimes  there are  studies that show  people will lose body fat and gain  muscle and respond to training better  just when they have someone to  encourage them  you know  you see it all over the internet people  will line up to pay money  just to have a coach  or a trainer or a psychotherapist or  somebody tell them  you can do it you're doing well give it  your all  it's crazy and it's measured in sports  medicine maybe more than any other field  because i guess that's where there's the  most money  to be made out of it all right  people need encouragement  if they're gonna start a lawsuit  challenging city hall  about the fact that  government buildings are displaying the  ten commandments of moses and the  government buildings are violating the  principle of the separation of church  and state do you want to do that alone  join me that with no friends wouldn't it  matter wouldn't it mean a lot to you to  have matt dillahunty or one of these  other guys get on the phone with you and  just  maybe they don't give you any money  maybe they don't you know put you in  touch with a lawyer who can help you  just to have that encouragement  matters and as stupid as these people  may be  i think they understand that i think on  some level they're aware that just like  a weight loss coach  they are themselves  in the encouragement business so isn't  it strange  isn't it striking isn't it remarkable  that they discourage you  from challenging  changing and overturning the culture of  christmas  why would they do that  why wouldn't they reach out to you the  way my youtube channel does i don't know  any other youtube channels doing this  and say you can make a difference you  can change this yes you can  you just sat through the longest 10  minutes of your whole entire life i  found that 10 minutes heroin to listen  to i found it shocking and disturbing  and unexpected but before if you cast  your mind back to about 15 minutes ago  you heard the structure of the argument  that matt dillahunty and his wife  presented to you edited down  in brief  they try to claim that christmas  profoundly is not rooted in the divinity  of christ is not about the nativity of  christ or not anymore  they try to make an argument that  christmas  is or can be  purely  cultural  but that is  in the strictest definition of the term  merely a begging the question fallacy if  you are telling me that the problem is  not religious  but cultural  then i am just going to press ahead and  ask you  why is it that you resign yourself to  the notion that the culture cannot be  challenged that the culture cannot be  improved that the culture  cannot  change if you read newspapers  at some point you've seen images of men  and women in blackface  in the netherlands in luxembourg in some  part of germany celebrating christmas  with a tradition they call black pete or  black peter  they have this tradition that santa's  little helpers  are white people in blackface or some  kind of 18th century stereotype  oh do you want to defend that  do you want to say that because hey it's  not connected to the bible it's not  connected to the nativity of  jesus  anyway do you want to just stand by that  and say this cultural tradition should  go on forever and ever and it's  completely irrelevant to offer an  argument about its origins that at some  stage of history this wasn't considered  racist or wasn't perceived to be racist  or wasn't intended to be racist well  it's racist now it's a problem  now and it's gotta change  now  it's a completely  self-defeating argument to say  that  frosty the snowman is not religious  rudolph the red-nosed reindeer is not  religious that the charles schultz  peanuts cartoons and many attempts to  commercialize these things through  animated tv shows and movies that those  those aren't religious they're just  cultural so  what  the culture of racism can change the  culture of homophobia can change  quote-unquote rape culture can change  the culture of gender roles however you  want to put it they can change and they  will change and i want to come on  youtube and encourage you you and you  and you to say we can start making that  change now  all you have to do  is stop  compromising  with the excuses  for  the past  encouragement matters  in my own life  also i reached out to matt de la unde i  sent him email to my knowledge the  emails went to him and i think i got one  reply from him it's totally possible  it's possible that reply was written by  his ex-wife or by someone else on his  team you know a lot of successful people  they have 10 different 10 different  employees answering i i don't know that  okay but yeah there was a time  when i wanted to collaborate with this  guy on a youtube video when i wanted to  just appear on his call-in show to call  and talk to him because i had spent  about 10 years of my life as a scholar  of buddhism not just a casual cult  member or something you know i did  research including the languages and  history and politics of these countries  in asia i moved to and lived to in these  countries in asia  all right i had a kind of experience  with an insight into buddhism  ancient medieval and modern  very few  english-speaking people on earth have  ever had or ever will have  and good luck good luck finding a  buddhist monk or finding anyone born and  raised in east asian culture or  southeast asian culture who will be  honest with you about these things there  may be a few but  it's  it's scarce i really felt there was  something positive i could do for myself  for others and for the future of the  atheist movement if i could  share what i know with these people if i  could even just do a q a  and start to engage in a semi-scholarly  discussion of what's wrong with buddhism  in part because i think we gain a deeper  understanding of what's wrong with  christianity what's wrong with our  societies in the western world by having  some comparative analysis by having a  contrasting awareness of a completely  non-christian culture and history and  then you  start to ask interesting questions like  well  if you wouldn't make these excuses  for  prayer why are you making these excuses  for buddhist meditation  oh yeah yeah there's scientific  literature proving how effective prayer  is remember what i said about  encouragement  oh yeah oh we can prove oh prayer it has  all these positive things yeah yeah yeah  and there's there's scientific evidence  there's scientific literature  for meditation  and what's your role in this  as an atheist activist there are really  important questions  for the future the united states of  america for the future of christianity  for the struggle of atheists and  anti-clerical people against  christianity that come out of an  examination of buddhism  even if you feel buddhism  plays no part in your life  okay  i've been poor i've been broke i've had  to worry  about saving up money for the next pair  of shoes i've bought i've i've lived in  some rough circumstances over the years  it's come and gone and  i've also had periods of time when money  wasn't a problem i've been honest about  that on  the ethernet too  it would have meant  so much to me  at that time  if matt dillahunty or any of these other  guys had invited me to speak on their  show and i would have  scraped the money together  to take a bus trip  to austin texas some place a place i  never want to go  and to attend  one of these conferences just to share  what i have to share  and to try to find the few other people  who i would imagine  are positively motivated to make this  change  to to draw a line  in the history of the world and say the  dark ages  are  over  and that didn't happen right i never had  that encouragement so my youtube channel  went on to become  something very different and my own life  went on to become something very  different if you even look at the name  of this youtube channel it was created  with the assumption that atheist  activism anti-clerical activism would be  a huge part of my life what i was doing  the internet what i was doing everywhere  else  i am so glad  i was never invited  to speak  at that conference  i'm so glad  i never met you  and i never met your wife  and i never met  any of these [ __ ] scumbags  who took  the name of atheism  and dragged it through the mud  who made of this most important  political  project  nothing more than an opportunity  to indulge their own reckless pursuit  of money  fame  power  respect  and sex  the catholic church  is not bad  because it's corrupt  the catholic church is not bad because  priests become motivated  by sex to some extent money fame power  respect and sex not necessarily in that  order okay the catholic church  is evil to begin with  and is then  further corrupted  by these all-too-human  motivations  but it's the corruption of the best  that's the worst  and in the same way that you matt  dillahunty  corrupted this movement to offer your  own  shitty  selfish  short-term justification  of continuing  the rituals and tomfoolery  of christmas  you perverted  the movement  as a whole  from its core  and what atheism will accomplish and  what atheism  won't accomplish in the next 10 years  has everything to do  with your personal shortcomings  intellectual  ethical  and  emotional